In this lecture, we are going to toggle the appearance of the plus button in the team member block.
In my browser, I have added the team member block to the page.
If I were to click on the block, the toolbar would appear clicking outside of the block will de select
it.
At the same time the toolbar disappears.
Selecting and selecting the block causes the toolbar to toggle its appearance.
It would be annoying if the toolbar never disappeared.
What if we had multiple blocks?
If we're not editing the block, it doesn't make sense for certain UI elements to stay on the page.
For this reason, we should hide the plus button from the block.
It doesn't make sense for this option to be available while the user is not editing the block.
WordPress provides the block selection status as a property.
Let's try using it in your editor.
Open the edit dot js file.
In the components function the structure a property called is selected.
The IS selected property is a boolean value.
This property is managed by WordPress.
It'll tell us if the block is currently selected.
Let's start toggling the plus button.
Scroll to this button in our templates.
Above the tooltip component.
And the following expression is selected and.
Next move, the tooltip component after the expression.
With a single property, we can toggle elements based on the block selection.
Let's try testing our code in the browser, refresh the page and add the team members group block.
By default, the plus button is gone.
We can select individual team members for the button to appear.
Toggling UI elements based on a block's selection can reduce clutter from the editor.
It's super helpful to have a feature like this.
Let's continue working on our UI in the next lecture.